The source code for HyperGrave.

> [!WARNING]
> HyperGrave is still in development. Expect bugs (and maybe even data loss)!

If you found a bug, report it in **Issues** tab > **New issue**. You can also suggest a new feature there.

If you have a question about this data pack, use `/trigger hygrave.help` in game.

You don't need any resource packs to use HyperGrave.

## Downloads
These are the downloads for the latest version of HyperGrave:
- [HyperGrave v0.5.0 (MC 1.21.5 - 1.21.11)](https://github.com/Sul4urx/HyperGrave/releases/download/release%2Fv0.5.0%2Fmc-1.21.11/HyperGrave.v0.5.0.MC.1.21.5.-.1.21.11.zip)

### Upgrading and downgrading
- If you are upgrading from a version older than v0.5.0, **remember to first uninstall HyperGrave from the older version** and then you can replace the older version with the newer version. **This will remove all data from HyperGrave**.
- If you are upgrading from version 0.5.0 or a later version to a newer version, you can safely replace the older version with the newer version without the need to uninstall HyperGrave. HyperGrave will automatically tell you what you need to do before using the newer version.
- If you want to downgrade from any version, **remember to first uninstall HyperGrave from the newer version** and then you can replace the newer version with the older version. **This will remove all data from HyperGrave**.

### Older versions
If you want to try out older versions of HyperGrave (which is not recommended), go to [releases](https://github.com/Sul4urx/HyperGrave/releases), find the version, expand **Assets** and download the zip file.

> [!NOTE]
> **DO NOT download the source code files.** These are auto-generated by Github and don't have anything to do with the actual data pack.

#### Notes for older versions

##### v2a0-beta-1
- The appropriate values for gamerules aren't set automatically here yet. You have to change the game rules _keepInventory_ and _doImmediateRespawn_ to true and false yourself, respectively.
- Only supports Minecraft versions 1.21.5 - 1.21.8 .
- During the time of making this version, HyperGrave was used to be called SGrave 2.

##### v2a0-beta-2
- Only supports Minecraft versions 1.21.5 - 1.21.8 .
- During the time of making this version, HyperGrave was used to be called SGrave 2.

##### v2a0-beta-3
- Only supports Minecraft versions 1.21 - 1.21.8 .
- During the time of making this version, HyperGrave was used to be called SGrave 2.

##### v0.4.0
- Only supports Minecraft versions 1.21 - 1.21.11 .

## Source
If you don't know much about source code and stuff like that, you can skip this section.

### Branches
| Name                         | Description                           | Last Supported version | Supported |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | -----------------------| --------- |
| `main`                       | The main branch                       | v0.5.0                 | ✔         |
| `archive/release/mc-1.21.4`  | For Minecraft versions 1.21 to 1.21.4 | v0.4.0                 | ❌        |

## Commits
Git commits follow [conventional commits v1.0.0](https://conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0).

### Types
- **feat**: When a feature gets added, changed or removed
- **fix**: When a bug gets patched
- **doc** or **docs**: Changes of this type affect documentation or UI
    (which includes things like comments, config tooltips, UI, menus, etc).
- **ui**: Changes of this type affect UI. Commits of this type can always be replaced with **doc** or **docs** (but not vice versa).
- **refactor**: When a rename or moving of something happens in the internal codebase.
- **reword**: When a rename or moving of something happens in the UI/UX.
- **style**: Changes that only affect formatting, white-space, etc and do not change the meaning of the code.
- **version**: When the version of HyperGrave gets changed

## Versioning
HyperGrave uses a special versioning scheme. It is in the format of X.Y.Z (Three non-negative integers X, Y and Z seperated by dots).

**This versioning scheme is not final.**

HyperGrave development has 3 phases:

### Development Phase
The first phase is the development phase, when HyperGrave is not feature-complete yet.

In this phase, X = Z = 0 . Y starts from 1 and increments by 1 every time an update has been made to HyperGrave in this phase.

### Testing Phase
The second phase is the testing phase, when HyperGrave is almost feature-complete and only needs a few bug-fixes before it is fully released.

When entering this phase, Y gets incremented by 1 one last time and Z is set to 1. Z gets incremented by 1 every time an update has been made to HyperGrave in this phase.

> [!NOTE]
> HyperGrave normally can't go back to the previous phase. However, exceptionally, HyperGrave _can_ go back from the Testing phase to the Development phase. This is rare, but it can happen. If this happens, Z gets set back to 0 and Y is incremented by 1 again.

### Release Phase
The third and final phase is the release phase. When entering this phase, X gets set to 2 (not 1, to avoid confusion with Minecraft versions) and Y and Z get set to 0.

When updating HyperGrave from version X.Y.Z to A.B.C, if: ($`x`$ and $`y`$ and $`z`$ in all cases are non-negative integers)
- ($`\forall{x}\in[0,Y]\land \forall{y} \land \forall{z}`$) the player has to fully uninstall HyperGrave in version $`x`$.$`y`$.$`z`$ to use the new version:
    - **A = X + 1**
    - **B = 0**
    - **C = 0**
    - For example: The player has to uninstall HyperGrave first in order to upgrade from 2.5.2 to 3.0.0 or later.
- ($`\forall{y}\in[0,Y]\land \forall{z}`$) the player can upgrade from version X.$`y`$.$`z`$ to A.B.C without uninstalling HyperGrave, but has to uninstall HyperGrave when downgrading from version A.B.C to X.Y.Z:
    - **A = X**
    - **B = Y + 1**
    - **C = 0**
    - For example: If the player upgrades from 2.5.2 to 2.6.0 or from 2.4.3 to 2.8.1, HyperGrave will automatically make the necessary changes (and tell the player if they have to make a few changes manually). 
    
    - However, if the player wants to downgrade from 2.6.0 to 2.5.2, they will have to uninstall HyperGrave first.
- ($`\forall{z}\in[0,Z]`$) the player can upgrade from version X.Y.$`z`$ to A.B.C and downgrade from latter to former without uninstalling HyperGrave:
    - **A = X**
    - **B = Y**
    - **C = Z + 1**
    - For example: If the player upgrades from 2.5.2 to 2.5.3 or downgrades from 2.5.3 to 2.5.1, HyperGrave will automatically make the necessary changes (and tell the player if they have to make a few changes manually)
 
## License
Copyright © 2026 Sul4ur

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>
